Stellordnung, "the fixed filing place" (2:11), the foundation of a secondary memory, [[0b2]] giving every slip a unique and immutable (2:12) number which can be branched out [[0b3]] and linked to, [[0b1]] resulting "a combination of order and disorder" that is the presupposition of a frutiful scientific research, (4:9) is preferred to "a systematic ordering in accordance with topics and sub-topics" (2:8), which requires making "a decision that would bind us to a certain order for decades in advance" (2:9), leading "very quickly to problems of placement, if we consider the system of communication and ourselves as capable of development" (2:10).

---

> ⁸For the inner life of the card index, for the arrangement of notes or its mental history, it is most important that we decide against the systematic ordering in accordance with topics and sub-topics and choose instead a firm fixed place (_Stellordnung_). ⁹A system based on content, like the outline of a book) would mean that we make a decision that would bind us to a certain order for decades in advance! ¹⁰This necessarily leads very quickly to problems of placement, if we consider the system of communication and ourselves as capable of development. ¹¹The fixed filing place needs no system. ¹²It is sufficient that we give every slip a number which is easily seen (in or case on the left of the first line) and that we never change this number and thus the fixed place of the slip. ¹³This decision about structure is that reduction of the complexity of possible arrangements, which makes possible the creation of high complexity in the card file and thus makes possible its ability to communicate in the first place.
>
> -- [[Luhmann1992]] Section II

There is a redundant closing parenthesis in the quote, "like the outline of a book)".
There is also a case in "in or case" where "or" should be "our".

keywords: #stellordnung