Stellordnung [[0b]] "guarantees that its order which is merely formal does not become a hindrance but adapts to the conceptual development" (2:50),
and offers the opportunity for "a kind of secondary memory" (2:43) to arise during "extensive work with this technique" (2:43).

The second memory that "gets its own life, independent of its author" (2:45) mimics human memory that "does not have a thoroughly constructed order of its entirety" and a "linear structure like a book" (2:44).

---

> ⁴³As a result of extensive work with this technique a kind of secondary memory will arise, an alter ego with who we can constantly communicate. ⁴⁴It proves to be similar to our own memory in that it does not have a thoroughly constructed order of its entirety, not hierarchy, and most certainly no linear structure like a book. ⁴⁵Just because of this, it gets its own life, independent of its author. ⁴⁶The entirety of these notes can only be described as a disorder, but at the very least it is a disorder with non-arbitrary internal structure. ⁴⁷Some things will get lost (_versickern_), some notes we will never see again. ⁴⁸On the other hand, there will be preferred centers, formation of lumps and regions with which we will work more often than with others. ⁴⁹There will be complexes of ideas that are conceived at large, but which will never be completed; there will be incidental ideas which started as links from secondary passages and which are continuously enriched and expand so that they will tend increasingly to dominate system. ⁵⁰To sum up: this technique guarantees that its order which is merely formal does not become a hindrance but adapts to the conceptual development.
>
> -- [[Luhmann1992]] Section II