Kotlin coding style
===================

## Use `when` expressions for cases, avoid other usage of `when`.

Avoid use `when` statement, which is not exhausted.
Just use `if ... else if ...`.

Kotlin uses `when` for both `case` and `cond`, which is confusing.
Thus avoid use `when` expression for `cond`.

## Avoid variadic functions

Kotlin uses `Array<T>` for `vararg p: T` underhood
but special array types for basic types, e.g. `IntArray` for `vararg p: Int`.

However, `p: Array<T>` and `vararg p: T` behaves differently.
In other words, given a function `Array<T> -> Unit`,
we do not know how to invoke it just from its signature.

`Array<T> -> Unit` may be an infix function,
but all infix functions can be invoked as normal functions.

## Avoid `object.invoke`.

Without define `invoke` method for objects,
every time I see `CapsName(something)`,
I am sure it will return an instance of `CapsName`,
nothing else.

If we use lower case for object name,
then once we see `lowerCase(something)`,
we may think it is a function.
But we can pass neither `lowerCase` nor `::lowerCase` to a higher-order function.

## Avoid `return` in lambda.

Control flow `return` in lambda returns the outer function.
This is confusing.

## Reduce using lambda.

Lambda cannot specify return type.
This weakens type safety
and is dangerous for complex functions.

## Reduce using component object

Kotlin supports top level functions, often cleaner than component objects.

## Reduce using normal function

They are not first-class:

- They have to be referred as `::f`.
- And invoking them requires intermediate variable (`::f()` won't walk).
- Only `Foo::bar` is referable. [`foo:bar` is not supported.][#5]

[#5]: https://github.com/Kotlin/KEEP/issues/5

Use `val f = fun()...` except for:

- `main`
- `inline` for reified generics
- `tailrec`

## Annotate `@Throws`

- for documentation
- for calling in try catch clause from Java

## Only use `i++` to increase `i`

`y=i++` and `y=++i` is really confusing to me.

So I prefer to only uses `i++` to increase `i`, i.e. just the statement `i++;`.
I think a meaningful evaluated value of `i++` should be `void`
if a programming language allows `++`.

Same applies to `i--` and `--i`.

## Prefer functions to classes

We prefer to declare classes for new types.

## Prefer small functions

- Extract small functions from a complex function.
- One function should only do one thing.

## Avoid top level variables

- Prefer passing parameter to function.
- Local variable is fine.
- Top level immutable value is fine.

## Reduce commenting.

Programming languages are clearer than natural languages.
So in most cases try to express as much as possible in programming language itself.

- Use meaningful function and variable/value name.
- Declare local variable near its usage.
- Avoid deep nested function call expression. Extract meaningful immediate value declaration.

Here 'commenting' mainly refers to inline comments,
i.e. comments explaining implementation details.
Commenting public packages and functions on their usage is fine.

## Break long line of parameters logically.

A simple approach is break for one, break for all.
To save lines, related parameters may be grouped in one line.

## Prefer exhausted cases.

When expressions for `case` in Kotlin are exhausted, thus preferred.

Similarly, if `if else` is necessary, prefer explicit else branch over fall through flow.

For example:

```kotlin
fun if_else(x: Int): Boolean {
    if (x > 0) {
        if (x < 10) {
            return false
        }
    } else if (x < -10) {
        return false
    }
    return true
}
```

It is short, but difficult to figure out the control flow.

Rewrite it more explicitly, without omitting else branch:

```kotlin
fun if_else(x: Int): Boolean {
    if (x > 0) {
        // This is for demostration only.
        // `if (x > 0 && x < 10)` is clearer.
        // Pretend there were more complex branching here.
        if (x < 10) {
            return false
        } else {
            return true
        }
    } else if (x < -10) {
        return false
    } else {
        return true
    }
}
```

Also, avoid using `variable` to save else branch.

For example:

```ceylon
var x: Int = 0;
if (condition) {
    x = 1;
}
```

can be rewritten to

```ceylon
val x: Int;
if (condition) {
    x = 1;
} else {
    x = 0;
}
```


## Prefer readability over testability

The main audience of code is human beings, not tests.

Improving testability should not harm readability.

## Prefer explicit type declaration over inferred `val`/`var`

`val variable_name: ClassInterface<TypeParameter> = ClassInterface<TypeParameter>()`
and `val variable_name: ClassInterface = ClassInterface()`
may be replaced with
`val variable_name = ClassInterface<TypeParameter>()`
and `val variable_name = ClassInterface()`.

Use explicit type declaration instead under other conditions.

Same applies to `var`.

## Pay attention to compiler warnings

Also use `@Suppress` annotation to suppress false positive warnings.

## Prefer `under_line`

`camelCaseAreHardToReadIfThereAreMoreThanThreeWords`

`under_line_is_much_easier_to_read`

Exceptions:

- `TypeName` since `TypeNamesWithMoreThanThreeWords` should be avoided.
- `FooBar fooBar` so wherever we see `fooBar`, we know it is of type `FooBar`.

## Overload operators consistently

Overloading an operator should be consistent to all types supporting the operator.

## Reduce using infix functions

Infix functions provides a new syntax of function call, similar to operators.

Only use infix functions when they are obviously cleaner than non infix form.

