General coding style for programming
====================================

## The goal of coding style is readability

Thus if there is a good reason to go against the style,
just do it.

## Avoid regression

> So we don't fix bugs by introducing new problems.
> That way lies madness,
> and nobody ever knows if you actually make any real progress at all.
> Is it two steps forwards, one step back,
> or one step forward and two steps back?

-- [Linus Torvalds](https://lwn.net/Articles/243460/)

## Prefer small functions

- Extract small functions from a complex function.
- One function should only do one thing.

## Avoid top level variables

- Prefer passing parameter to function.
- Local variable is fine.
- Top level immutable value is fine.

## Reduce commenting.

Programming languages are clearer than natural languages.
So in most cases try to express as much as possible in programming language itself.
Also, a compiler cannot warn you that comments is outdated.
And an outdated comments can be very misleading.

- Use meaningful function and variable/value name.
- Declare local variable near its usage.
- Avoid deep nested function call expression. Extract meaningful immediate value declaration.

Here 'commenting' mainly refers to inline comments,
i.e. comments explaining implementation details.
Doc annotation of public modules and functions on their usage is fine.

## Name variable and function accurately.

For example, `is_male(person)` is better than `check_sex(person)`,
because `check_sex(person)` does not tell if it returns the sex value, or a boolean.
Maybe the type of `check_sex` tells that it returns a Boolean.
But it still does not tell whether it returns true when `person` is male.

## Break long line of parameters logically.

A simple approach is break for one, break for all.
To save lines, related parameters may be grouped in one line.

## Prefer readability over testability

The main audience of code is human beings, not tests.

Improving testability should not harm readability.

Obscuring code to improve testability may bring in potential bugs not caught by tests.

## Prefer `under_line`

`camelCaseAreHardToReadIfThereAreMoreThanThreeWords`

`under_line_is_much_easier_to_read`

Exceptions:

- `TypeName` since `TypeNamesWithMoreThanThreeWords` should be avoided.
- `FooBar fooBar` so wherever we see `fooBar`, we know it is of type `FooBar`.

## Applicable to some languages

### Prefer explicit else branch

Some languages make the else clause of `if` mandated.
This is a good design.

For other languages,
prefer explicit else branch over fall through control flow.

For example:

```ceylon
Boolean if_else(Integer x) {
    if (x > 0) {
        if (x < 10) {
            return false;
        }
    } else if (x < -10) {
        return false;
    }
    return true;
}
```

It is short, but difficult to figure out the control flow.

Rewrite it more explicitly, without omitting else branch:

```ceylon
Boolean if_else(Integer x) {
    if (x > 0) {
        // This is for demonstration only.
        // `if (x > 0, x < 10)` is clearer.
        // Pretend there were more complex branching here.
        if (x < 10) {
            return false;
        } else {
            return true;
        }
    } else if (x < -10) {
        return false;
    } else {
        return true;
    }
}
```

Also, avoid using `variable` to save else branch.

For example:

```ceylon
variable Integer x = 0;
if (condition) {
    x = 1
    ;
}
```

can be rewritten to

```ceylon
Integer x;
if (condition) {
    x = 1;
} else {
    x = 0;
}
```

### Only use `i++` to increase `i`

`y=i++` and `y=++i` is really confusing to me.

If the language allows `++` operators,
only use `i++` to increase `i`, i.e. just the statement `i++;`.
I think a meaningful evaluated value of `i++` should be `void`
if a programming language allows `++`.

Same applies to `i--` and `--i`.

### Do not use return value of assignment statement

Similarly to usage of `i++`,
if assignment statements of the language return value,
do not use them.

### Prefer explicit type annotation

Some languages allow you to use `auto`, `var`, etc.
to let the compiler infer the type of a variable for you.
Use this feature sparingly.
Explicit type annotation serves as documentation.
Omitting them may reduce readability of code.

`ClassInterface<TypeParameter> variable_name = ClassInterface<TypeParameter>()`
and `ClassInterface variable_name = ClassInterface()`
may be replaced with
`value variable_name = ClassInterface<TypeParameter>()`
and `value variable_name = ClassInterface()`.

Think long and hard when you want to omit type annotation under other conditions.

### Put semicolon on its own line to remark mutability.

"A Little Java, A Few Patterns" uses a special coding style to remark mutability:

```java
x = x + 1
; // Future references to `x` after this line reflect the change.
anArray.append(1)
; // Same as above.
```

This is a brilliant idea.
If the language allows to put the statement terminating semicolon on its own line,
use this style.