Be careful when indexing slice
------------------------------

Index out of bounds are not checked at compile time
for slices (including strings, a.k.a. slices of bytes).

Functions, interfaces, pointers may be `nil`
--------------------------------------------

The compiler does not check nullability for functions, interfaces, and pointers.

Thus any function taking a function, an interface, or a pointer,
need to check whether input is `nil` itself.
Since all methods implicitily accepts a pointer,
all methods should check whether its receiver is `nil` or not.

Do not omit consecutive type declaration
----------------------------------------

I cannot know the type of `a_variable` at a glance.

```go
func foo(bar string, a_variable, another_variable int, flag bool) {}
```

Thus I does not omit type declaration of parameters:

```go
func foo(bar string, a_variable int, another_variable int, flag bool) {}
```

Stay clear. Stay explicit.
--------------------------

- Do not use naked return.
- Do not omit top level type names in map literals.

Only use head statement in `if` to declare varables
---------------------------------------------------

Like `for`, the `if` statement can start with a short statement to execute before the condition.
This often harms readability thus it should only be used to declare variables to limit their scope.

Same applies to `switch`.

Only use switch for cases
-------------------------

In Go, `switch` can be used for both `case` and `cond`.
To avoid confusion, I always use `switch` for `case`.
I use `if ... else if` instead of `switch` for `cond`.

Only use defer for cleanups
---------------------------

Use `defer` carefully.

Do not rely on zero values
--------------------------

Do not rely on Go's default initialized value.
Initialize it explicitly instead if the value is intended to be used later.

The program should be semantically equivalent if Go changed zero values of default initialization.

Similarly, always check presentence when retrieving elements from a map.
For example, if you want to retrieve an integer from a map,
and use `0` if the key is missing.

Utilizing the zero value of missing keys makes the code shorter,
but less clear:

```go
element := m["id"]
```

Verbose and explicit code is preferred:

```go
element, present := m["id"]
if present {
    return element
} else {
    return 0
}
```

Do not use `%#q` in `printf`
----------------------------

There are more good things to remember than the special rules of `%#q`.

Use `under_line`/`Under_Line` for `const`
-----------------------------------------

Constants are global, thus most of them should be compound words.
 
